Now here's an interesting check,
if I check if not number equals not number, what do you think we'll get?
We actually get false,
now why is this the case,
it clearly is the same, right?
You would think like this but actually, there is a rule in Javascript and that rule simply says not
a number
is not like not a number.
It's like that, it's a built-in rule,
therefore if you check if both are not equal, you get true.
As I said, a built-in Javascript rule specifying this.
Now what do you think we'll get if I check if zero equals null?
Because remember when we were doing calculations with null, it was treated like a zero.
So since I'm not checking types but only if the value is the same, we would expect to get true here, right?
Well
let's see it, I get false
and the reason for this is another rule in Javascript, null can't be compared is the rule,
you can't compare
null. You can check if a variable is null in an if condition, as I said, null is treated like false then
but you can't compare anything to null and that's just another built-in rule.
Now to make this even more confusing, what happens if I compare null to undefined and I did this before,
so
maybe you were scratching your head already because here, I get true and then right after, I said that
null can't be compared.
Well that's an exception from the rule, null can be compared to undefined,
that's possible,
that's the one exception.
On the other hand, if I want to check if 0 is the same as undefined, what do you think I'll get here? I'll
get false.
The reason for this is that generally and this is the last Javascript rule
I want to mention here, undefined
compared to anything is always false except when comparing it to null.
That is something you just have to keep in mind,
null can't be compared, except with undefined and undefined will always return false except for when
comparing it with
null. That are simply the exceptions here but that are the general rules in Javascript and it's just
important to keep this in mind,
you probably won't compare any numbers with null that often but it's important to know how all of that
works behind the scenes
and that you got there was hardcoded rules which probably won't affect your day-to-day programming life
that often but as I said, it's important to know.